I want to thank you all for joining us
this is a webinar that about probably a
week and a half ago we wouldn't have
thought that we'd be putting on we
actually pivoted pretty quickly about
other things that we were doing we were
planning on doing one on account based
marketing but this is a little bit more
relevant to the times that we're living
through so the genesis of this was a lot
of our clients were cancelling the
events that they were going to or the
events were just canceling out right and
so we put together a quick three ways
that they can get their marketing moving
and give the their sales movie and so
with this webinar we hope to go through
many different avenues that marketers
can take but but overall you have your
own unique way of applying a lot of
these things so those those things
should be kept in - into consideration
so good things started I want to
introduce myself my name is Ryan Lewis
I'm the president and founder of bonfire
marketing we've been we focus on b2b
marketing and with a heavy focus on
account based marketing and demand
generation and with me I also have Pam
dinner
Pam dinner and I have been friends for a
very long time but she has she came from
a very stellar career at Intel and then
has since written books on on content
global content development and also
sales and sales enablement tactics so I
want to welcome her on the phone as well
Thank You Ryan so again I thank you all
for joining us for this because this is
an extremely important subject right now
and we'll kind of go over a couple of
reasons why but we've been pulling as
much information as possible leading up
to this webinar we actually have
probably rewritten this webinar about
three times now because when we
originally put it together that was last
Wednesday so we've a lot has changed on
a daily basis so keep that in mind as we
roll into this but a couple of different
statistics that we've been
following and tracking which is
extremely important is this is from a
survey from Toco Toco put out a survey
to their clients which they most of them
are high-growth companies but 79 percent
of the respondents indicated their
pipeline had moderately or significantly
decreased due to the corona virus and
then cancellations to live events and
conferences
one of the biggest categories for the
mantan has impacted their creation of
pipeline 87% of those surveyed agreed
with that statement so we're in a very
precarious position as marketers and
sales mailers that there's a lot of
shifting ground shifting underneath us
that we need to attack proactively to
make a big difference the last one is
more than half of American jobs are at
risk because of coronavirus in the short
term I there was a there was a a meme
that went out that basically I'd love to
apply to a lot of these things and that
is it's difficult for now this thing
will pass and it's important to to keep
that in mind as we start analyzing our
tactics and the things that we do
because yes there will be some long-term
impact here but it this gives us a
chance to really analyze what is working
and what isn't working and that's that's
what we try to explore so I also pulled
one quote from Sequoia Capital downturns
revenue and cash levels always fall
faster than expenses so you're gonna see
revenue drop-off if you have not already
and cash and the revenues are going to
remain constant and that's that's a
that's a troubling scenario for a lot of
businesses and something to keep in mind
as as as marketers and as salespeople as
you as you try to communicate with your
audience but the other piece of this is
you know in some ways business Muse
biology Darwin some are some eyes those
who survive are not the strongest and
most intelligent but the most adaptable
to change I think that that is
absolutely true in these moments is that
we need to be adaptable to change very
quickly in order to survive Sakura
Sakura capital they also are in
tortillas for being a bit of a
bellwether when these things happen and
people should listen to what they have
to say so we're trying to do something
this is I'm trying to relate this to
flattening of the curve
there's absolutely the planning the
curve of the right of iris and that is
obviously preventative dementia
preventative measures and making sure
that that we're creating safe distances
between people but also we have to look
at the flattening a curve of marketing
so if you don't don't try to make some
changes and flatten the curve of steep
revenue drop-off or expense changes then
you will have a sharp decrease you know
in a lot of your business activity and
that's what we're trying to in the
tactics that we're going to be going
through we're trying to give you things
to work on they can flatten the curve of
your business operations because it's
it's absolutely health is and I'm not
trying to make a direct correlation to
this but the economic impact is pretty
immediate so we're going to focus on
these three focus areas one is
technology one is marketing tactics and
last one is sales enablement so going
into that pretty quickly because we
don't have a very much very much time
today I want to speak and some of this
can is is related to a little bit of we
know this but right now and many of you
on this phone call will know these
things but I do want to touch on them
very specifically one is webinar
technology so if you were doing live
events prior you're not doing them
anymore doesn't mean you cannot you
cannot communicate with your clients or
develop things that are gonna be
compelling to them they just can't be
there in person so you you we recommend
and we believe that you need to invest
heavily into the time and the due
diligence of what webinar technology is
out there and what will work for you a
couple that that we've put as examples
here zoom does it does a really good job
we use zoom we have
for years now they provide a lot of the
tools that are highly effective for us
to communicate we've not really used
them too much as a webinar technology
just personally but we've used on 24 for
our clients on 24 is a much more robust
type of technology they can tell you how
many people were on the webinar how long
they stayed it gathers a lot more data
than zum-zum does and the other one is
WebEx Cisco WebEx they have a very
robust set of tools under their their
umbrella as well but wanted to speak to
that just very briefly this is kind of a
no-brainer at this point but your teams
especially sales if they are not
familiar with these tools a breath needs
to be taken to really familiarize them
with how these things function whether
using videos appropriate whether what
the backgrounds look like how it does a
sound sound good all these things play
into this and need to be instructed with
your teams and then used appropriately
as you try to communicate with your
clients
I also we put a link down at the bottom
of this that has g2 as a full list of
all the different webinar technologies
we'll have that for the next one is
interactive technology now that people
cannot see things possibly in person to
demo a face to face something along
those lines they need it having a way to
consume your understand and and
familiarize themselves with their
product this is this is going far beyond
a PDF or or a white paper or something
along those lines people need a little
extra if you are not going to be able to
be there in person and so we wanted to
invite some of this interact in tarako
technology to the to the picture and
what that is companies like tiled turtle
ion Interactive we've used all of these
in practice and ion in particular is a
very interactive type of type of
platform that you can take a possibly
static PDF
Trane's transform that into something
that is far more interactive by doing
that also you can give better data of
who is interacting with that that
content and and you can have it adjust
as as people do interact with it because
a lot of these do have logics built into
the technology and you can you can track
how people interact with the things
again there's a there's a link to all
the different content creation on G to
the last one and this is more of a
platform based type of scenario and
personalization technology I think is
extremely important in these times is
that you don't
there isn't a salesperson pushing the
narrative along as much especially if
people are pulled up in their houses but
it's something to consider is that
one-on-one personal touch to this the
first one that we list here is video
bigger it is a personalization video
technology where you it changes her
whatever the audience is it's it's
pretty amazing technology but it can be
incorporated in any kind of marketing to
marketing an outbound campaigns the
other two are more based around what's
the personalization once you get them
attract them to the websites path
factory instapage these are ones that
change what the suggested content is as
people's behaviors are tracked on a
website and they're very effective they
give you scores like binge score which
is how much content somebody gets
consumed people are behaviorally they
are digging deeper into what information
is available and they're looking for
solutions there's a lot of confusion out
there and a lot of panic out there about
how people are consuming and and
interacting with with things and Pat
factor eating instapage can help push
the narrative along if they are a
prospect that's available
the next thing is marketing tactics and
I'll go through these fairly quickly we
will be providing email addresses so if
you have questions after this webinar
case feel free but I want to speak a
little bit quickly real quickly about
webinars because events have been
cancelled
some of you possibly had keynotes that
you were speaking you were having at
those those events those are those are
sales opportunities that are enormous
and they're gone there they are
completely lost and so you have to find
a replacement and it's not going to be a
one-to-one we have to really analyze and
make sure that we're not setting our
expectations too high of what these
things can do for you because it isn't a
1 1 to 1 exchange but it doesn't mean
that you can't do these things for some
of our clients they had several key
notes and and workshops set up for these
events where they are really showing
their full capabilities and their
thought leadership within that industry
you can still post those keynotes you
just need to do them remotely and then
send them to to the audience that was
going to be there
but by the event being cancelled and
then not doing anything because of that
I think that that's that's a failure in
its own right I think that's a
non-starter and that that people need to
be thinking a little bit more creatively
of how they approach that same with
workshops and same with product
announcements you know the Worldwide
Developers Conference has been canceled
Google's conference was canceled they
are doing product announcements at these
things and and on a smaller scale a lot
of other companies do product
announcements at these trade shows you
can still do these things it's not going
to be as good as the event just setting
those expectations it won't be but your
message will still get out there and
otherwise it'll it's radio silence and
that's that's probably not a situation
that anyone on this call wants to the
other piece is event partnerships
another creative way that we're starting
to look at these things is is how can
you partner with the event that was
cancelled or the event organizers and
maybe you can do something with
that organizer as a joint partnership
type of webinar the other piece to this
and we put some pro tips at the bottom
but some events they do not provide the
attendee list I would we recommend that
it's renegotiate those terms data is
going to be key to outreach in this
scenario and if they do not provide if
they still will not provide the attendee
list then try to rewrite some terms try
to try to learn possibly who was there
through website scraping or any other
way obviously all that being white hat
but that data is is critical to
understanding who was going to be there
and who you can generate as your
audience for this messaging sprint
campaigns this is the next pieces is
that that if you had long term campaigns
and campaigns we typically describe this
you know a year and a half that you need
to be looking at this and tactics really
break down what what you're going to be
doing at these things we're starting to
classify things into spring campaigns
that is how quickly can you be an agile
can you be and how we quickly even
change your messaging that applies to
this so I my first boss had loved him to
death and he instilled in me I worked in
radio and the thing that he said is the
only thing that the me the only radio
station anyone cares not SWI TV FM
that's in what's in the deal for me
all messaging needs to be put through
that lens it's no longer product selling
it's very much solution selling and and
any kind of marketing messaging or
tactics need to be put through that lens
of what is what's in the deal for me for
this this audience how do they see your
product how do they see your solution
and make adjustments very quickly and
make sure that those those adjustments
see the light of day very quickly and
you can test them channel partnership
inclusion so if if you are selling
through channel partners or resellers
making sure that you're including them
into your tactics in panicked and a lot
of adjustments
times it's we just run individually
partnerships are going to be key in a
lot of this because you need them you
need them when this passes you need them
out and sometimes they have access to
your audience that you don't so
integrating those partnerships is going
to be extremely important same with
reseller inclusion and the last piece is
sales inclusion making sure that
salespeople know exactly what you're
doing so that they can act on it
immediately no longer can you wait a
couple of days before you pass a lead on
sales it needs to be an immediate
function in any kind of marketing
campaign
protip I've already touched on this
messaging needs to change from ROI to
scarcity scarcity being you know there's
a limited amount that we have available
and the last piece is Direct Mail some
things to consider if you can no longer
visit your clients and you need to start
considering sending lunches to them you
need to start considering sending swag
that was at the event other things that
they can remain remember you by same
with product but a Direct Mail meets is
it really needs to be the forefront a
lot of these things needs to be
considered the last fit and the pro tip
on this was focused on working pipeline
first net new net new won't hear you and
that's that's that's a over
generalization but there's only so much
time in the day there's only so much
that we can do immediately and so we
recommend focusing on pipeline working
pipeline especially high velocity deals
first and then working on the net new
later so with that I will pass us on to
Pam
second so Ryan can you hear me okay yeah
all right very very good thank you
everybody
hey good morning good afternoon good
night wherever timezone that you're
calling in to this webinar thank you so
much and I understand that this is a
somber time just like Ryan indicated and
you all of us feel the pain and from my
perspective now is actually a perfect
time if you have not it's the time to
actually start engaging with sales if
you are working with your sales team
closely fantastic they are your BFF try
to actually enhance that relationship if
you will and there are three things I
want to talk about and just to share
with you in terms of what are some of
the best option to actually work with
the sales team as a marketer the first
one is you need to think about modifying
your product messaging and positioning
the second one is about revise your
content based on the new positioning
which is I just talked about and take
into account of the current new formats
of a virtual communications obviously
sales love to do face to face now it's
an opportunity they can't so they are
forced to change and they're using the
new tools and you need to understand how
they are using that tools and the better
help them entrance better help them in
terms of their communication another one
is give them some love and give the
strategic account the air cupboard right
and to complement the sales engagement
so with that being said let's move on to
a next slide and the couple examples I
want to share with you in terms
modifying the product messaging some
positioning that has a lot to do with
the business strategy changes for
example I'm a platinum members of United
and I got this message and if you
actually have flown United you know that
if you want to make any reservation
changes they charge you whopping $200
right it doesn't matter unless you pay
three times of airfare otherwise you
have to pay the reservation
inch feet and that you can see the email
I got was actually way before March 3rd
they basically said hey I know customers
are looking for more flexibility as they
make their trouble planned right now
which is true right everybody's
canceling the traveling plans and the
future reservation they basically say
guess what if you book anything anything
at this time between March 3rd and March
31st you can change it for free for the
next 12 months it doesn't matter your
location destination the date you can
make the changes with no change fee same
thing for loom loom is actually a video
platform if you haven't used them you
should look into it I love using loom to
make a quick video recording to share
some of the feedback I have with my say
social media manager or even I want to
say a quick thank you to potential
prospect I do a quick recording on loom
and I just send it out it's a wonderful
and easy tool to use and a full loom
they actually have a premium version of
it they also have a perv pay version
which is the pro on the premium free I
call it premium or a free version of it
the you can only record up to 25 videos
now they actually change their free
plant to about 20 from 25 to unlimited
right and they were so cutting the price
of loom pro in half before it was $10
now it's $5 right and they exist they
change the existing off retry old from
14 days to 30 days on top of it this is
the most important part they know that
all the teachers and also K to 12 and
the education institution universities
are doing everything online so they are
really working hard to make sure that
the tool is available for teachers and
students right if you are a marketer for
loom this is a business strategy change
on top of it you have to change your
messaging and your positioning of your
Prada second thing that you have to
change is the content right in the past
you probably creating content
horizontally that applied to all
industry segments now with this specific
direction change you have to think
through like some of the key content
that you are going to create needs to be
specifically tailored for teachers and
students and also k-12 schools
universities and other education
institution so old listen as a marketer
for loom you need to think it through
oh now with this direction changes I
need to think it through in terms of the
segments I need to go after to align
with the product messaging positioning
and also the vertical that sales team
will go after right and right here just
like what ryan indicated wi t d FM you
know what does that mean to you well
obviously for me I'm a pro member I
won't actually gonna get some of my
money back and that fly to next year
that's great so this is actually a very
good email in terms of talking about the
changes and how the marketers modify the
product messaging and the position
positioning changes and at the same time
increase the pipeline does that make
sense now let's move on to a next one
and that you probably said okay Pam
that's great but that's a b2c examples
understood understood now I'm gonna
share with you in terms of b2b example
serious xane and a lot of you probably
have it I I'm actually a member as well
obviously consumer is they're probably
biggest portion and also revenue drivers
but they also have for business right
here on the upper right hand corner
right when you click on that this is the
page that I show in terms of they
obviously sell this specific products
through the authorized resellers just
like Ryan indicated they are working
very closely with resellers and channel
partners to sell this to businesses
which is the right model I see that as a
right model for serious
so with that being said you can see that
one two three four five six they have a
six talking point or positioning to sell
to businesses right before is probably
monthly fee now is low monthly fee right
maybe in the past they actually have a
long-term contract that you have to sign
now they have no long-term contract so
there are some messaging are changing
and you need to make sure that your
content and your message message is
aligned with the new direction to
actually help educate the resellers so
modify existing or creating content is
actually essential so how does that
impact you I mean you were like oh yeah
you know what this I I do this all the
time I totally understand but engaging
with sales you need to start observing
and understanding how sales use the
current online conferencing tools right
and then create a sales entry contents
to align with that and your demos videos
and just like Ryan indicated which is
interactive content that needs to be
easily shareable and easily incorporate
it into the company's online
conferencing tool another thing is very
very important is while you are creating
content just don't create a content and
pass that to a sales team is it possible
that you can provide in the right
context and the map you will content to
a different sales stages okay so with
that being said that's and that's one
thing that you need to pay attention to
and the last one I want to talk about is
use account based marketing to provide
air cover and now is the time that you
need to stay very closely with the sales
team especially about their game plans
right maybe when they started year 2020
they have a very ambitious goal to
actually go after new accounts but now
with the current situation they probably
need to make adjustment between the
existing versus new customer racial and
that you need to understand that because
that should that will impact your domain
generation goes okay another
thing is they the total sales revenue
annual revenue they have to achieve
maybe the same but they probably make an
adjustment between quarters in terms of
that in terms of what that revenue
should be again you need to understand
that and then you have to modify your
domain generation go accordingly another
thing that I am inching in terms of a
sales pipeline they are looking into the
existing sales pipeline very very
closely right whatever's in the pipeline
they probably look into it have a lot of
thoughts and they are modifying in a
determine what is actually the right
plans to move forward and they are going
to have a multiple or more frequent
sales how those meetings and you need to
attend that just to stay close right and
another thing that you need to think
about in terms of account based
marketing is you will need to find I
guess a challenge or a difficult time in
terms of how to rebalance your marketing
outreach between the top of the funnel
and also the bottom of the funnel
accounts communications and another
thing that you will run into is in terms
of budget discussion right and I was in
the corporate world for long period of
time I totally understand in a time like
this the first things that got cut is
trouble budget
the second thing got cut is a marketing
budget right so you probably have to go
through the five percent budget cut
reduction scenario ten percent as well
and you need to look into it and see if
you can maintain and salvage some of the
marketing budget and one of the best way
to do that is aligned with the sales
goal okay
so looking to that and see if you can do
what you can't
to make sure that you take care of your
sales team and also maintain your
marketing budget alright with that being
said I want to pass Patong back to Ryan
so I'm gonna do my best to wrap it up
here the the main focus and the main
concern we have especially with with
sales and marketing is there's been a
lot of
coverage about service industry workers
losing their jobs or being furloughed or
laid off for multiple multiple and other
things and that is that is absolutely in
these times probably going to be the
first move but the second is is sales
they're not necessarily laid off per se
but they're a lot of them are 100
percent commission and you know that
that is that's not a that doesn't show
up in a lot of statistics government
statistics because you don't really
report those things like you do with
unemployment but that that's something
that will hit their bottom line and
hinder their ability to function and so
this is something that is is near and
dear to to all of us as marketers is we
have to enable the conversation we have
to to dig deep partner with them and
adjust things immediately to make sure
that we're meeting their need it's not
gonna always be homeruns our efforts are
not going to be immediately effective
but through fine-tuning and and
integration with with what sales is
doing and their efforts I think that
you're going to be able to craft a
message that gets the market moving
because that's the most important thing
here is to keep people from not not
waiting or keep people from waiting in
these these times so we've got a couple
of bullet points here one thing is is
thinking this is a long distance
relationship lots of calls lots of
letters lots of contacts you need to
overcome the current situation of not
being able to to connect with somebody
and and the only way to do that I mean
is through trying multiple channels and
also being vigilant and being with your
outreach and and how you communicate
with your audience so think think like a
long distance relationship you know if
you were dating in high school or
college or whatever and you had to call
your your girlfriend or boyfriend
frequently just to make sure
that contact that's that's the mentality
in the mode that you need to be
considered get sales involved we've been
beating this drum a lot on this call but
it's really important I understand what
they need now get on calls with them if
needed enable them to be effective get
partners involved and spoke to this a
little bit as well they are the front
lines and they need need the companies
help
how can they be an extension of your
sales and this how we treat our partners
and how we treat our resellers now will
echo into into the future they will see
us they will they will see you as as a
company they want to partner with in the
future and build that long-term
relationship dig for data to get really
granular and find the customers and
potentially need your solution now
that's a velocity type of piece is what
what are the high velocity opportunities
that are there and capitalize on those
the ones that are gonna be taking 18
months 24 months even even a quarter be
looking a little bit more near-term I
have spoken with a lot of businesses
over the last week and I kind of equated
to Black Friday Black Friday's tactics
are mostly to capitalize on the any kind
of discretionary income that people have
and this is theirs that's a finite
amount right now their businesses are in
the same position where they have a
finite amount of op X and and capex cash
laying around and that's gonna go to
people that provide a messaging with the
solution fastest so dig for that data
look for the high velocity customers and
get get that messaging to them be
creative find new ways to reach your
customers ways that are very sympathetic
to what is going on with them but ways
that possibly you've not tried before
now's the time to get to get creative
with your tactics and make sure that
you're reaching people possibly where
they have not how they have not seen you
before
and the last piece of this is I think
it's really important is coming together
you know in times of need and crisis
it's important to use it as an
opportunity to really come together with
your team your internal team with your
clients but working fragmented will only
result in failure I if we are if we're
moving in different directions as a team
or as marketers then then it's not going
to be the outcome that we were hoping
for
and so unify your teams make sure that
they that everybody has has an
understanding of what is going on daily
calls I've heard a lot of companies
movie the daily calls and daily Huddle's
those are those are things that need to
be explored and then and and make sure
that the right message is being put out
to the clients so that's not confusing
either a big piece of this is
simplifying your your message and
simplifying your tactics so that you can
you can be known and remember in a very
noisy period so so the last is a call is
a it's a call to marketers it's called
sales it's called to everybody is to
drive forward and be proactive can't you
can't sit still and we have to keep
pushing and and thank you to new ways to
do things because as I stated at the
beginning of this webinar we redid this
webinar three times because because
things have changed so rapidly
throughout the week and we can't really
first see that changing too much as far
as the adjustments and the speed in
which they do change but the only way to
to feel that we have a sense of control
and and obviously effectiveness out
there is to keep driving forward so I
hope that's the conclusion of this
webinar and hope it's been helpful as
mentioned before we will provide our
email addresses if you need anything but
we're also going to be providing a
checklist so that that summarizes
everything that was in this webinar and
and hopefully it helps you analyze what
you're currently doing and make
adjustments that's necessary I want to
thank you all for joining us today I
know that it was a bit
minutes I think the first invited went
out last Thursday and now we're here I
want to thank Pam for for joining me on
this call or wealth knowledge with from
the corporate side and also just with
sales enablement and other other things
that she explores as she's a she said
she has a huge depth of knowledge with
how to explore these problems and then
my team for throwing all this together
this was the last last minute scenario
and they they work tirelessly to make
this all happen so Thank You Mickey that
Don's call and John and Matt and
everyone else involved so thank you all
thank you so much so with that I think
we're gonna stop the call we're not
going to be doing questions but just
because we're over on time but we again
we will be sending this out I have a
chat so we'll see
yeah there we go all right thank you all